In this lecture, we take our first look of a simple test in action.
So I have written a predefined test in Eclipse using Java.
I'm going to run the test using the Chrome browser.
It has purposely been slowed down for demonstration purposes.
It will test some elements on the automation testing website before moving on to the test store where
we impersonates user purchasing a product.
The objective is not to explain or understand the code, but to see a test in action.
So let's run the test.
So on my screen is a demo test Java class, and this contains all the code that I need in order to demonstrate
a test in action.
So some of this code we wouldn't use in the real world.
For example, there is lots of references to free dot sleep.
And that code is there just to slow down the test itself.
If I scroll down, you'll see what this class contains.
So there is quite a bit of code here.
In order to run this class, I'm going to right click it, select run as and Select Java application.
On doing so, you'll see the Chrome browser will open and it goes to the automation testing website
and starts clicking on some elements.
So it's now clicking on the accordion test page.
Expand in and collapse in the accordion.
And then goes down and clicks on the test or link, which takes me to the test store.
And here I'm looking at different products.
I'm selecting one.
I'm changing the dimension and quantity, and then I'm adding the item to the carts.
And then select proceed to checkout and I attempt to enter promo code.
But unfortunately this promo promo code has expired and then proceed to check out and start entering
the customer details.
Then enter a first name.
Last name.
Provide an email address.
And if I scroll down.
And then click continue.
Where asked for address information.
And so I start populating the address of this particular customer.
I think continue again to the shipping method where there's only one option and I'll add a comment.
And then I select a payment method by paying by cheque.
I agree to the terms and conditions and then I select order with an obligation to pay.
The order is then confirmed.
If we then look at the console, you'll see a message saying end of test.
So we was able to interact with the browser and a web page and its elements using this Java code.
And this Java code uses Selenium web driver and the browser drivers to interact with the browser.
So I hope you found this demonstration useful.
Now let's begin building up our selenium web driver knowledge.